
## JavaScript is a programming language that is

**high level:** it provides abstractions that allow you to ignore 
the details of the machine where it's running on. It manages memory 
automatically with a garbage collector, so you can focus on the code 
instead of managing memory like other languages like C would need,
and provides many constructs which allow you to deal with highly 
powerful variables and objects. 

**dynamic:** opposed to static programming languages, a dynamic 
language executes at runtime many of the things that a static 
language does at compile time. This has pros and cons, and it 
gives us powerful features like dynamic typing, late binding, 
reflection, functional programming, object runtime alteration,
closures and much more


**dynamically typed:** a variable does not enforce a type. You 
can reassign any type to a variable, for example, assigning an 
integer to a variable that holds a string.

**loosely typed:** as opposed to strong typing, loosely (or weakly)
typed languages do not enforce the type of an object, allowing more
flexibility but denying us type safety and type checking (something 
that TypeScript - which builds on top of JavaScript - provides)

**interpreted:** it's commonly known as an interpreted language, 
which means that it does not need a compilation stage before a 
program can run, as opposed to C, Java or Go for example. In 
practice, browsers do compile JavaScript before executing it, 
for performance reasons

**multi-paradigm:** the language does not enforce any particular 
programming paradigm, unlike Java for example, which forces the 
use of object-oriented programming, or C that forces imperative 
programming. You can write JavaScript using an object-oriented 
paradigm, using prototypes and the new (as of ES6) classes syntax. 
You can write JavaScript in a functional programming style, with 
its first-class functions, or even in an imperative style (C-like).